PrefaceThis book, A Journey to the West, mainly focuses on the precious teachings ofH.H. Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche during his travels to Europe and North Americato spread the dharma in 1993. From the Land of Tibet, which was starved ofinformation, to the technologically advanced United States, Canada, and France,

the audiences’ dispositions and preferences were completely different, and as aresult there was a huge variance in the way Chojé, Lord of Dharma, deliveredthe dharma teachings. If he were an ordinary person, Chojé would have feltvery uncomfortable with the unfamiliar culture and environment. 

But he wasquite at ease, and with his exceptional wisdom and preeminent realization, hedeeply impressed and influenced a large group of Europeans and Americans.

Looking back on Yidzhin Norbu’s entire life of seventy-one years, the detailsof this journey to the West remain unknown to most people. I had the privilegeof accompanying him on this trip, and as a witness, I feel it is necessary to revealhis elegant demeanor to everyone. 

For a long time, I wanted to collate my notesthat were recorded back then and the material I brought back from the tripand compile them into a book. Later, I was able to collect even more materialthrough various channels, but I have been putting it off until now because I wasbusy with dharma teachings and other matters.This year coincides with the 30th anniversary of Chojé’s visit to Europeand North America, and the 20th anniversary of his parinirvana. Given sucha special occasion, I put everything else aside and primarily focused on thisbook. Starting in December 2022, I began to write this book in both Tibetanand Chinese simultaneously, and also had the International Translation Team1translate it into English, Japanese, and so forth.

Most of the time, I worked morethan ten hours every day, during which I encountered some health issues andhad to undergo an operation.

Just after I was discharged from the hospital,driven by a strong feeling of impermanence, I continued working on the book.Then, by the end of April 2023, I completed my draft.

In June, when I invited Khenpo Tsultrim Lodro Rinpoche to help me previewthis book, at that time he said, “This year is the 20th anniversary of LamaYidzhin Norbu’s parinirvana. It is best that we can distribute this book to thesangha as a gift during the Parinirvana Dharma Assembly.” 

All the khenpos incharge of Larung Gar this year, including Khenpo Tsondru Tarchin and KhenpoWangchuk Tsegyal, attach great importance to this book and suggested thatthis book be offered to all lineage disciples of Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok at thedharma assembly as a remembrance. 

Moreover, the primary individuals inthe preparatory team responsible for arranging this dharma assembly haveproofread this book and promised to take charge of all affairs to put it intoprint. It is particularly worth mentioning that Tulku Tendzin Gyatso has notonly proofread the book in a meticulous manner, but also provided preciousadvice for the improvement of some content based on his experience of writingthe extensive biography of Chojé in recent years.

In July, I gathered the suggestions and feedback from everyone, carefullyexamined and revised the necessary parts, and finalized the draft in a satisfactory way. 

In the process of writing the book, I listened to the recordings of Rinpoche’soriginal teachings many times, first compiling them into the written format inTibetan, and then translating them into Chinese. When I encountered somestories or certain statements mentioned in the teachings, I would look up therelated materials to make sure they were true and accurate. While laying outthe manuscript, the photos of each stop were arranged in the appropriateplaces according to their times and dates. Some of these photos are screenshotsfrom video recordings at that time. Although not of highest quality, the photosrepresent accurate, historical footage.

Previous great masters have said that it is permissible to make mistakes indharma teaching and debating, but composing a text must be rigorous andfree of error. However, I found that even Yidzhin Norbu’s oral teachings rarelyneeded any correction or adjustment after they were written down. What hetaught was already perfect on its own. His words were eloquent, valuable, andcaptivating in such a way that everyone will derive benefit.

In this book, besides Rinpoche’s original teachings, I also added some of myrecollections. Following the principle of “not boasting or exaggerating aboutone’s guru with false words,” I tried to make sure all the content was accurate.If there were some details that I could not remember clearly, I felt okay aboutleaving that out. As for the empowerments that Chojé gave during the trip,I did not include them in this book since I wish in the future to compile aseparate book as a faithful recording of the liturgies and procedures of all theempowerments that he granted.

From the book, the reader can see that Chojé did not take a single day of restduring the three months of this trip. He was either carrying out his enlightenedactivities or was on the way to the next place of his enlightened activities. Withinthe one hundred five days, he gave forty empowerments and sixty-eight talks,and his traveling by car and airplane alone was more than two hundred hours.

Without the great compassion and altruistic aspiration to benefit sentient beings,an ordinary person simply could not have made such a fully packed trip.Thirty years ago, Yidzhin Norbu clearly observed the capacity and preferenceof westerners, and without any reservation, he passed onto them the preciousteachings of Secret Mantra that were difficult to obtain even in the Tibetanmonastic community. Such an exception was the first and also the last time. Ifanyone wants to practice any of these supreme tantric teachings in the future,they must first seek the empowerment, transmission, and guidance manual ofthe teaching from a qualified lineage master. Otherwise, it will be harmful andunproductive.

In this day and age, most people are used to speed reading on the Internetand are inseparable from their smart phones. They may not have the patience toread through long articles of dharma teaching, preferring short quotations andmagical experiences to satisfy their searching minds instead. However, for aperson who truly seeks liberation, these profound teachings that arose naturallyfrom the ocean of Rinpoche’s wisdom are priceless beyond all else. Especially,for those who never met him, just reading this book is equivalent to meetingChojé in person and listening to his teaching face to face.

This book is a true documentation of the teachings given by a great Buddhistmaster in this modern age. For worldly people, it may be easier to learn moreabout Buddhism from another perspective. 

For dharma practitioners, they canfind the actual pith instructions they need for their own practice right here. 

For dharma teachers and propagators, they can be inspired by these stories aboutH.H. Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche. 

For lineage disciples, they will refresh theirmemories of Chojé’s impressions that spread the dharma in the West, and theycan go on to be inspired by emulating his spirit of propagating the dharma forthe benefit of all beings.

I would like to thank everyone who was involved in this project called AJourney to the West. Whether they were typing, editing, proofreading, typesetting,printing, or provided photos, audio, and video recordings, all these elements ofparticipation have enriched this publication, enabling it to present this historymore vividly and memorably.

If there are any errors in the book, I sincerely repent them in the presenceof my guru and the wisdom deity. With this merit, I make the dedication toall sentient beings throughout the universe to swiftly attain the fruition of theultimate guru!

Written by Sodargye in the Rainbow Light Cave,A sacred terma place of Padmasambhava that is fully endowed with supreme blessingThe Seventeenth Day of the Fifth Month of the Water Rabbit YearJuly 5th, 2023

Itinerary Tokyo 1 day, 1 talk Hawaii 4 days, 4 talks, and 3 empowerments Boulder 7 days, 5 talks Rocky Mountains 7 days, 10 talks, and 2 empowerments California & Oregon 16 days, 11 talks, and 9 empowerments Washington, D.C. 9 days, 6 talks, and 2 empowerments New York City 8 days, 6 talks, and 3 empowerments4.86 Boston 8 days, 4 talks, and 5 empowerments Nova Scotia 6 days, 6 talks, and 2 empowerments Southern France 8 days, 7 talks, and 3 empowerments Hong Kong 4 days, 1 talk, and 3 empowerments Taiwan 7 days, 5 talks, and 5 empowerments Chengdu 7 days, 2 talks, and 3 empowerments 105 days, on the trip 68talks 200+ hours, travel time 40empowerments 14cities Traveling 41,680 kilometers, equivalent to traveling around the earth once 

Prepared Secretly over Three Years 

When Kyabjé Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche visited India in 1990, he already had the plan to go to the West to spread the dharma. 

Once, His Holiness spoke to me in private, “I am planning to visit the US and some other western countries in three or four years to teach the dharma there. If you are interested and your family would agree, I can bring you along.For the moment, do not reveal this plan to anyone else to avoid unnecessary obstacles.

Although there is nothing mysterious about our traveling abroad, to ensure that everything goes smoothly, the plan should be kept confidential. You have always been tight-lipped about such matters. That is good!” 
 
Having said those words, Yidzhin Norbu continued, “To move forward with this plan, I would like Khenpo Namdrol to be in charge of communications with the dharma centers, and you to be responsible for making all the preparations.” 
 
Hearing these words, my mind was overcome with both excitement and stress. I thought to myself, “I must make every effort to serve my guru by trying my best to please and satisfy him, regardless of the outcome!” 
 
After our conversation, I began secret preparations for the trip, such as passport applications, fund raising, and gathering necessary materials, such as a good camera and so forth. 
 
I also tried to learn about the manners and customs of the western world to be prepared. Back then, there was no worldwide web or social media, so I made do with the resources available at the time.
 
In addition, I needed to organize and prepare the dharma texts, liturgies, and ritual implements. In particular, it was necessary to make recordings of certain teachings and liturgies because, since 1990, Chojé’s vision was already compromised, making it difficult for him to read the texts. Although he could memorize the shorter texts and common liturgies for empowerment, it was still necessary to record the longer ones so that during his teaching, he could listen to a paragraph and then take a pause to explain it.